---
layout: post
featured: true
title: "Dashdash"
title_image: /images/2013/07/dashdash.png
permalink: /2016/01/01/dashdash/
categories:
  - Dashdash
blurb: "TODO dashdash blurb."
show_blurb: true
styles: |
  #main .entry .entry-title img {
    height: 67px;
    margin-bottom: -3px;
  }
  .screencast {
    width: 648px;
    height: 410px;
    min-height: 410px;
    margin: auto;
    position: relative;
  }
  .screencast .front,
  .screencast .back {
    position: absolute;
    top: 0;
    left: 0;
    width: 100%;
    height: 100%;
  }
  .screencast .back {
    background: no-repeat url('/images/2013/07/screencast_grey.png')
  }
  .screencast .front {
    z-index: 1;
    line-height: 410px;
    text-align: center;
    background-color: rgba(242, 242, 242, 0.75);
  }
  .screencast .front:hover {
    opacity: 0;
  }
  .screencast .front:hover + .back {
    background: no-repeat url('/images/2013/07/screencast_grey.gif')
  }
  input.subscribe {
    width: 301px;
  }
---
[Dashdash][1][^1] is a messaging app that helps us feel more like we're *with* people who are far away. It creates a shared space online where we can socialize and collaborate in lightweight, ad-hoc groups, much like we do in real life at cocktail parties, school cafeterias, coffee shops, professional conferences, and office water coolers. Existing services for group messaging either:

 1. Restrict participants to those who are explicitly invited (such as Facebook Chat, Google Hangouts/Gchat, and WhatsApp).
 2. Make the entire conversation public regardless of who is participating, forcing participants to perform for an unseen audience (such as Facebook and Twitter[^2]).
 3. Rely on pre-defined &#39;rooms&#39; that users can join at will, but that can't adapt to side conversations (such as Hipchat, Campfire, and IRC).

None of these services model how conversations *actually* work in social spaces in the real world. We regularly gather into groups that are too large for a single conversation, so instead we break up into smaller groups. Each person can look around the space, see which people are having which conversations, and join whichever conversation s/he chooses. The things we say in these real-life conversations are private to those present at the time, so as people come and go, the participants can adjust their behavior accordingly. 

The dynamics of these social spaces emerge from the fundamental characteristics of humans and the world in which we live: how our voices carry through the air, how our bodies occupy space, how we recognize the faces of those nearby, and so on. It's self-evident/tautological/inherent/innate/organic/no surprise/TODO that these interactions would feel natural and fulfilling.

Dashdash emulates these real-world social spaces. The service is in private beta and under active development, but right now it's an instant messaging service built on top of the XMPP/Jabber standard. This means Dasndash works with *existing* client apps that people already use across a variety of platforms. These apps all support multiple accounts, so users just need to add their Dashdash account alongside their Gchat, AIM, and other accounts. Supported clients include:

 * Mac OS X: [Adium][41], [iChat/Messages][42]
 * iOS: [IM+][43], [imo][44]
 * Windows: [Pidgin][45]
 * Android[^3]: [Xabber][46], [Beem][47]
 * Web: [imo.im][48]

As shown in the below screencast, Dashdash creates two new groups in the users contact list. Together, these two groups constitute the shared social space described above. Similarly to other messaging services, in the **Dashdash Contacts** group, Alice (the signed-in user) can see the people she knows who are currently online and available to chat[^4]; it's like a list of everyone who is in the current social space. The **Dashdash Conversations** group has a list of all of the conversations that Alice can see, including the ones that she's participating in to help her remember that *other* people can see her conversations too; it's like a list of all of the clusters of people in the current space.

All that Alice needs to do to join a converasation is send a message to the appropriate item in her contact list window. She can't see what was said before she arrived, and she won't know what will be said after she leaves, just as if she had walked up to a conversation in real life. It's not scalable for everyone to see *every* conversation, of course, so Alice can only see the Dashdash conversations that her friends are in. Because each two-person conversation can seamlessly become a group conversation, groups can form organically based on the interests of the participants. There are a few other features that are designed to mirror various aspects of real world conversations, but it's easiest to just watch the screencast, which is about 90 seconds long.

<div class="screencast">
<a href="/images/2013/07/screencast.gif" target="_blank" class="front">Hover or click to watch the Adium screencast.</a>
<a href="/images/2013/07/screencast.gif" target="_blank" class="back"></a>
</div>

While this early version of Dashdash is uniquely useful for groups of friends and co-workers, there's many other aspects of our real-world social spaces that should be better emulated by our telecommunications technology

Some of these will be enabled by new hardware such as Google Glass (post soon)

we emulate facial expressions first with emoticons, and now with 

When people are in a face-to-face conversation, there's an incredible amount of information being exchanged and shared other than the words that each is speaking. Each participant is aware of the other's intonation, facial expressions, and body language as well as the context for the conversation. That shared context can include aspects of the space (inside or outside? noisy or intimate?), activity (what is each person doing or looking at?), and social situation (who can see the conversation?). 

I'm working on this because I want it to exist. I've loved instant messaging since I begged my parents for AOL in 1998, and I love spending time with groups of friends and collaborating with groups of coworkers. Dashdash brings these things together.

Conversation isn't just a feature of products that focus on micro-blogging, photo-sharing, social bookmarking, or etc. Rather, those things serve our desire to connect with each other, and the synchronous conversation, the real-time back-and-forth that all of this content inspires, is what builds friendships. That's the feature.

Are you also passionate about IM? Or interested in building distributed messaging systems? Get in touch.

ambient conversational context

In the long term, reality will be augmented, not split into real and virtual worlds. Hardware will be commoditized, but application-layer market share will go to products with simple social experiences, and not to incumbents. Communication platforms will help us *be* somewhere other than where we are and share the social, informational, and spatial contexts for the conversations we're having.

Build an open-source browser extension to let Gchat users add generic XMPP services to the existing Gmail client.
Build a chat server that both implements Dashdash's unique group dynamic and federates with other XMPP services.
Build an iOS app targeted at current students who want to feel more connected to their friends.

<form action="http://dashdash.us1.list-manage.com/subscribe/post?u=67b33604cb44dc71cb2d30ab0&amp;id=c00b18f50c" method="post"  target="_blank" novalidate>
To sign up for the Dashdash private beta, <fieldset role="subscribe"><input class="subscribe" type="text" name="EMAIL" placeholder="click here and enter your email address"/></fieldset> or email me at [lehrburger@gmail.com][2]. I'm also looking for people to work with, so if you're as excited as I am about the future of communication, then get in touch!
</form>

[^1]: The name Dashdash was inspired by [Morse Code](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Morse_code), in which "&#45;&#45;" is the letter "m", but it's also short, memorable, and fun to say. The app was previously called Vine.IM ([whois](http://whois.domaintools.com/vine.im)), but a few months later Amazon.com-owned Quidsi bought [Vine.com](http://www.vine.com/) and [launched a retail site for environmentally-friendly home products](http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/09/26/amazon-starts-a-shopping-site-for-the-environmental-crowd/), dashing my hopes for buying the [owned-but-unused .com](http://web.archive.org/web/20110202113611/http://vine.com/vine/Vine_Technology.html) after raising venture capital. Around that time [Twitter bought another startup](http://allthingsd.com/20121009/twitter-buys-vine-a-video-clip-company-that-never-launched/) called Vine.co that was building a video sharing service, and while for a while it looked like they would [use Ver.se](/images/2013/07/verse.png), they eventually [launched under the Vine name](http://blog.twitter.com/2013/01/vine-new-way-to-share-video.html), and I needed to re-brand.

[^2]: Twitter can acheive some of this with @-replies between private accounts, but this is inelegant/difficult/etc. I'll do an in-depth analysis of conversation on Twtiter in an upcoming post. TODO finish this footnote.

[^3]: I don't own an Android device, so haven't been able to test these apps. Email me at <a href="mailto:lehrburger@gmail.com">lehrburger@gmail.com</a> if they work, or if you have any trouble!

[^4]: TODO something about how presence changes with mobile.

 [1]: http://dashdash.com
 [2]: mailto:lehrburger@gmail.com
 [41]: http://adium.im/
 [42]: http://www.apple.com/osx/apps/#messages
 [43]: http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/im+-instant-messenger/id285688934%22
 [44]: http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/imo-messenger/id336435697
 [45]: http://www.pidgin.im/
 [46]: http://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.xabber.android
 [47]: http://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.beem.project.beem
 [48]: http://imo.im/





